 # *Scenario modelling of the sustainable development goals under uncertainty*

 by *Enayat A. Moallemi, Lei Gao, Sibel Eker, and Brett A. Bryan*

 This paper is submitted for publication to *Earth's Future*.


 ## Abstract
 Models are increasingly used to inform the transformation of human-natural systems towards more sustainable futures, aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). However, the future uncertainty of alternative socioeconomic and climatic scenarios challenges the model-based analysis of sustainable development. Obtaining robust insights, which can remain valid under many plausible futures, requires a systematic processing of uncertainty through scenario modelling. Here, we use exploratory modelling—an approach for exploring the implications of various modelling assumptions using computational experiments—to quantify and analyse the impacts of global socioeconomic and climate uncertainties in achieving the SDGs. We develop a systematic, computational methodology to guide researchers in coping with future uncertainty in sustainable development, consistent with global benchmark scenario frameworks. To demonstrate, we implement the global climate and sustainability scenarios, namely the Shared Socioeconomic Pathways and the Representative Concentration Pathways, in an integrated assessment model of Earth and human system interactions. The modelled scenarios are used to evaluate global trajectories of eight SDGs related to sustainable food and agriculture, health and well-being, quality education, clean energy, sustainable economic growth, climate action, and biodiversity conservation under uncertainty. The results show that the progress towards different goals is highly sensitive to the modelled scenarios and to their uncertainty specification. This sensitivity signifies the importance of enumerating and examining the diversity of alternative scenarios and their uncertainty exploration to enable a more comprehensive assessment of sustainable development with the consideration of performance across a range of plausible futures and their boundary conditions. The enhanced modelling of scenarios can help decision-makers confront a wider variety of future possibilities and prepare them for unpredictable futures in planning for sustainability.

 ## Code implementation and references
 All information you need to reproduce the results is saved in the 'Scenario_Modelling' folder.
 Within 'Scenario_Modelling', you find the five following folders:

 * Model: This includes all the Vensim model files and their required input files. These model files can be opened with Vensim or can be run through Python when you execute the codes. In both cases, you need to have Vensim DSS installed.  

 * Notebook: This includes all the source codes and their documentation for reproducing the results.

 * Results: This include all the results that are generated by this research. The results from the exploratory and the sensitivity analyses are separated in two folders: 'Exploration_results' and 'Morris_results'. Due to the large file size, the results files are stored in Zenodo (see README in the Results folder).

 * Data: Any input data that we used e.g., SSP original data from the IIASA Database (for calibration).

 * Fig: Any figures generated are stored in this folder.


 See the `README.md` files in each directory for a full description.

 ## Using the code
 You can download a copy of all the files in this repository by cloning the
 [git](https://git-scm.com/) repository:

     git clone https://github.com/enayatmoallemi/Moallemi_et_al_SDG_SSP_Assessment.git

 or [download a zip archive]().

 A copy of the repository is also archived at *DOI TBC*

 ## Dependencies
 You'll need [Vensim DSS *8.0.9*](https://vensim.com/download/) to run the code. If you want to open the model file, then all  files in the 'Model' folder must be located in the same directory on your local drive.
 You'll need Python *3.7.6* to run the code.
 You can set up an environment with all dependencies using an environment manager
 like [Anaconda Python distribution](https://www.anaconda.com/download/) which
 provides the `conda` package manager.
 Anaconda can be installed in your user directory and does not interfere with
 the system Python installation.

 ## Reproducing the results

 For reproducing the sensitivity/exploratory analysis results in the paper, take the following these steps:

 1. To be able to open the model file in Vensim or to run with the provided code, make sure the model and all associated files (in the 'Model' folder) are in the same folder.

 3. Make sure the notebooks and all associated input spreadsheets and the Model_init file (from the 'Notebook' folder) are in one folder too. Open the Model_init file and correct the model directory line, depending on where you save your model file (from the 'Model' folder)

 4. If you're running the code with parallel processing, make sure you have opened all the three input spreadsheets in the 'Notebook' folder with MS Excel, before running your codes.

 5. The rest of the steps to run the codes are documented in each notebook and also as the README files in each folders.

 ## License

 All source code is made available under a BSD 3-clause license. You can freely
 use and modify the code, without warranty, so long as you provide attribution
 to the authors.

 The manuscript text is not open source. The authors reserve the rights to the
 article content, which is currently submitted for publication in Earth's Future.
